---
title: Xbox
permalink: wiki/Xbox/
layout: wiki
---

The Xbox is a games console developed by Microsoft and released on the
15th of November 2001. The console was designed to directly compete with
Sony's PlayStation 2. In
1998http://xboxdevwiki.net/index.php?title=Talk:Xbox&action=edit&redlink=1,
Kevin Bachus, Seamus Blackley, Ted Hase and Otto Berkes, disassembled
some Dell laptops to create a Windows based gaming machine, dubbed the
DirectXbox. The team then approached Ed Fries, the leader of Microsoft's
game publishing division at the time, with their idea. Ed Fries chose to
support the team's idea. During development of the console, the team
shortened the name to Xbox, which the marketing division at Microsoft
not liking the idea. Focus testing showed that consumers preferred the
name “Xbox” over anything else that was said during testing, so the name
stuck.

The Xbox was designed with multiplayer in mind, as the console had a
ethernet cable and 4 controller ports. In 2002 Microsoft released Xbox
Live, a subscription service where players could pay a monthly fee to
play online with other Xbox owners in games such as *Halo*, *Project
Gotham Racing*, and *Madden*. The service was discontinued on April
15th, 2010, where 12 players sat in a lobby of *Halo 2* 24/7 to keep the
server running. Microsoft saluted their decision, and said that they
weren't going to kick the players off. Instead they offered the players
Halo: Reach beta codes. The final player, Apache N4SIR was streaming the
entire thing, as the 12 players twindeled down to just him. On stream,
he was wondering what he should do, and one viewer suggested playing
through the campain, but not beating the final mission, as it would kick
him offline, and at 11:40 PM PDT, on May 11th 2010, Apache was booted
from the game. This image details the story
(https://external-preview.redd.it/A6pf\_qIL-DN--q3jRIvcRvklICQp-qk3zJjwogSGTzY.jpg?width=960&crop=smart&auto=webp&s=e5c0b2fa5f8f7b5fdbec96cd26d015177e399542)

Emulation for the original xbox exists, as there are 3 emulators for it,
XQEMU, Cxbx-r and an emulator that Strider3X is developing
