---
title: XQEMU
permalink: wiki/XQEMU/
layout: wiki
---

xqemu is a low-level Xbox / Chihiro Emulator started in mid-late 2012 by
espes[1](https://github.com/espes/xqemu/commit/d823f5802e7c4c84163aea8b4d924044951c705e).

The official homepage can be found at [xqemu.com](http://xqemu.com)

Compatiblity list
-----------------

There is a temporary compatibility list that was almost entirely created
by [pcmaker (also known as John
Godgames)](https://www.youtube.com/user/pcmaker2) since 2015. The
[newest compatibility list from
2018](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1sVtQ9SNPathKAMCqfYtvJQP0bs0UeLzP9otPHvZDMwE/edit#gid=709879345)
still has some problems though. You should not blindly trust these
reports.

A major issue is that the version information for some reports is
incorrect. This means that some games are reported as working, when they
don't work in official versions (yet). They were tested with development
versions build by developers, using incomplete features. Some of those
features might also not be public anymore, so you can't even repeat
those tests. XQEMU is also under development, new features in the
official versions might have resolved some issues, or caused new ones.

You should only use these compatibility reports to get a rough idea
about the state of XQEMU and where development is heading. You can also
search for XQEMU videos on YouTube (like “XQEMU Halo”) and you'll
usually find something. Note that many of those videos are also made
using development builds that aren't always public. Typically, the video
descriptions contain more information about the used builds.

XQEMU-JFR
---------

XQEMU-JFR is a now defunct fork of XQEMU by JayFoxRox. Most of the
changes have since been integrated back into the official version of
XQEMU. The archived version can be found at
<https://github.com/JayFoxRox/xqemu-jfr>
